So let's bring this game to a close, we're
going to be doing final fixes and finishing
off we're going to stop the ball from
nudging off the floor, or stop nudging
ball off the floor.
Make ball collision detection continuous,
and that'll be giving you some
suggestions for improvements and thank
you to Yang for bringing up the issue of
the ball coming off the floor. So you
know what I mean by that, hopefully at
the beginning of the game when you click
left and right on the UI buttons, the
ball you can nudge the ball right off
the floor so what I want you to do now
is as a challenge
use whatever tools you've got to stop
the ball nudging off the floor
Hey, so to stop this ball falling off we
can't just use the translate function
any more, we're gonna have to break it
down into X Y and Z, so let's just
do that float XPos or well let's just do the YPos and ZPos first
So the YPos is the YPos, the ZPos is he
ZPos, just keep track of those
okay and then we do the Y Pos...
that's the XPos because that's the hardest one
but still quite easy, so it's the ball dot
transform dot position plus however much
we've asked it to move, and then we clamp all of this - remember the old Mathf dot clamp function? - to
a range of minus 50f to plus 50f cos the
lane is a hundred and five Y so
fifty should be about right and we don't
translate anymore we just say Ball
transform dot position equals a new vector 3 which we'll construct right now and
we'll just go XPos comma YPos comma ZPos
could've just used Z, X, Y, Z couldn't I?
Oh well,
that's absolutely fine so what's the
problem here?
Ball dot transform dot position dot
X is all I'm missing and let's dive in
So that's the code, take a look at that
make sure it's clear, and now let's just
check the clamping works fine
So ball's in the middle here, we go left
then right, get to 50 and it stops moving
just as the ball looks like it's gonna
fall of the edge and the same on the other edge.
Perfect, so we've achieved the first
thing we wanted to achieve in this video
which is stopping the ball fall off. What
else have we got? We have make the ball
collision detections continuous, ok so
if you look at the ball and you look at
its physics it currently I have discrete
collision detection what I want is
continuous I want it to do
continuous... let me get my tongue in...
continuous collision detection I believe
we already have that on all the pins
it's worth checking whether or not you
already have that on all the pins but we
do want continuous collision detection,
it's designed for fast-moving objects, so
check all your pins as well and check
that they have either continuous or
continuous dynamic; the difference is that
continuous dynamic applies continuous
detection to other continuous objects
like the ball and a more basic detection
to non-continuous objects like the floor.
So continuous dynamic is appropriate for
the pins and continuous is appropriate
for the ball. Make sure you made those
changes not in play mode so that they're
stuck,
and then when you come along and
bowl your ball... boom even at very high speed it
works now that ball prefab has changed
you can see that there's a bold item in
here continuous collision detection and
this 400 so we can always apply these changes back to the
prefab if we want, and that ball will be
ready if you ever instantiate another ball but we
can go very fast now, it doesn't pass
through. Fantastic, so I think we are
there. Let's just do a little bit of
playtesting, let's go to maximize on play I
think we're about ready to bring this
came to a close because you've got all
the elements that you need to make this
your own and you've already seen how to
do menu systems, you've already seen how to do
music you've already seen how to port
to mobile I've already got nearly 50 videos in this
section and we've got plenty of other genres of
games to be adding so my feeling is
that anything else I add to this
section now becomes a diminishing
return very rapidly and also denies you
the opportunity to start weaning
yourself off the course in a way and
starting to do things your own way; to
make your own menu system your way, not
the way that we've been making menu
systems necessarily. Provide maybe a
second ball option, this ball looks fine
but how about a Death Star? We're out in space here,
my wife said Jupiter's good but
maybe in the menu you can choose a Death
Star get some music in there, get some
sound effects, volume creation. Maybe even
write the high score, the highest score
you've ever had to the player
preferences file so you can tell the
player whether they've had a high score or not
So just generally have fun with the
user interface, polish all this stuff
move this pin counter, make sure it always
stays underneath the, underneath the
camera there you know get the scores
looking pretty... it would look better if they
had boxes around them whatever you want
to do I think it may look better
portrait; maybe deploy it to mobile
maybe even make it a multiplayer game I
don't know whatever you want to do to
make it your own
we'd love to see it but I'm just doing
a run-through here to make sure that the
game plays properly now I have an out of
sequence; if you get out of sequence here
X and then six goes over there then
that's because if we look at our user
interface in the scores element then
some of it just must be out of sequence
and it's probably not the way these are
wired up
as such but the way they're laid out; so if you
go to your scores panel and then go down
these elements you see there's a jump
there three and four are out of sequence
etcetera so that just needs fixing up in
order to in order that things are round the
right way and it actually means that we
need to rewire or reposition either way
it's actually gonna be slightly easier
to just reposition these UI elements if
they're in the wrong place, so three
needs to come back one, remember we can
hold down our control or command key, and
then four needs to go over here; five
needs to come back a couple, 6 needs to
come back a couple 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 holding down
Ctrl or command snaps remember, 7, 8, 9,  10.
Great so my UI elements were just in
the wrong order if you copied me
absolutely verbatim you'll be suffering
from the same problem so that's it we
are at the end of this game it is a
complete game the majority of the effort
of this game was the test driven
development, I hope you've enjoyed that
it's a toy don't have to use every time
but it's certainly something that
applies very very well to ten pin
bowling. We've used Unity 5 features like
render textures and we're using some of
Unity 5's physics and we've got three
separate scripts simultaneously watching
this game we've got something working
out what the action is next the action
master and I will leave it as an exercise
to the reader to improve that action
master script, it works, it tests ok, but
it is ugly and it's nowhere near as
elegant as the score master or the score
display script so I challenge you to get
the action master down to being as
condensed as I did for the other two
I wanna leave that satisfaction to you
because I've already had the
satisfaction of making two beautiful
bits of code if I may say so myself and
then you got another piece of code that
is constantly working out what how to
display the scoring when we just wrote
that
and that seems to be working beautifully
down the bottom here putting the actual
bowls into the right boxes and then we
have another piece of code that is
asynchronously working out what
frame score to display and when; and then I
bowled impetuous and i hit the reset
bar and that's fine, that's physical
that's what happens in real bowling you
can bowl too early and if you do you're
just gonna hit the machine like that and
waste your go so I think this really now
covers the essence of ten pin bowling
and it's a framework that I'd love to
see some of you take and release
commercial ten pin bowling apps for the
App Store with a real with a real spirit to them
with maybe multiplayer maybe even
networked multiplayer
even if its single player then really
make a thing of how high a score can you
get - maybe put ducks on the screen when
there are ducks and all the other
bowling terms and just have a lot of fun
with it
We've really built a strong engine here,
it's been a lot of fun making this section, and
I'm gonna look forward to getting on to
the next genre of game in this epic course,
so thank you for being one of our
students, Do share your game, do make it
your own and we'll see you soon.